
Model-view-viewmodel (MVVM) is a a design pattern that is structured to separate logic and user interface controls

Separating "logic and data" from "UI"

We call the logic and data our "model"

It could be a struct, a sql db, or some machine learning code, or a rest api endpoint

1. the model could just be a @State in a view (minimal to no separation)
2. model might only be accessible via a gatekeeper "view model" class (full separation)
3. there is a view model class, but the model is still directly accessible (partial separation)

View should not have state. View should be stateless. State should be in the Model. Views should show us what's in the model at all times.

It's especially marked as @State in View so that we are careful. We only rarely put state in View. only minimal.

More types
- struct
- class
- protocol
- generics
- enum
- functions


both struct and class have
- stored vars
- computed vars (eg. var body: some View {})
- constant lets
- functions
- initializers (init() { })


everthing else is a struct. view model is a class

structs are value type
free init initializes all vars
mutability is explicit (var vs let)
go-to data structures

class are reference type
free init initializes no vars
always mutable
used in specific circumstances

### protocol

A protocol is a sort of "stripped-down" struct/class

It has functions and vars, but no implementation (or storage)

Declaring a protocol looks very similar to a struct or class

protocol Movable {
	func move()
	var hasMoved
	var distance
}
```
struct PortableThing: Movable {

}
```
PortableThing conforms to Movable protocol

A View is a protocol

### Function types


Examples

```swift
(Int, Int) -> Bool
(Double) -> Void
() -> Array<String>
() -> Void

// foo is a function that takes a double and returns nothing
var foo: (Double) -> Void

func doSomething(what: () -> Bool)
// doSomething requires a what, a function that takes nothing and returns a bool
```

Notice what the parameter names are not included, unlike in other programming languages

this works
```swift
var operation: (Double) -> Double

func square(operand: Double) -> Double {
	return operand * operand
}

operation = square

let result = operation(4) // result = 16
```

same can be done in typescript

### Closure

Closures are just inline functions.



